[Music]
they can turn a quiet Pleasant canoe
trip into a struggle for survival it's
as if some great Beast opens its mouth
wraps its watery tentacles around you
and pulls you deeper and deeper wow
that's too scary hey we're talking
sinkholes here what secrets do they hide
are they as mysterious as they seem
let's investigate some of the most
famous ones
our first stop brings you to a beautiful
Lake Shore surrounded by magnificent
Green Mountains winding roads seem to
cut in to their natural beauty and
that's when you see it a huge hole
gaping in the water with thousands of
cubic feet of liquid pouring inside no
underwater tentacley monsters hiding
here this beast was created by humans
welcome to the glory hole of Lake
Berryessa you'll find the lake in
California in the United States oh it
was created by people that's not
interesting you probably thought okay
but how about this there is a town under
the lake the small town Monticello was
sunk intentionally for creating this
lake hundreds of farmers had left their
city in the 50s and all the streets were
filled with water a dam named after the
town was built near the lake when it
rains the water level in the lake rises
to prevent it from spilling over the dam
edge people built a huge spillway more
than two school buses across and four
times as long as a bowling lane to
understand better how big the glory hole
is imagine you've shrunk to the size of
an ant now you're standing on the edge
of your bath watching the water flowing
down the bathtub drain and into the
sewer similar to that the water from
Lake Berryessa travels through a tunnel
and drains into nearby Putah Creek
created to supply the area with drinking
and irrigation water Monticello dam
serves about 600,000 people
it also lures hordes of tourists
intrigued by the glory hole which helps
the town's economy the gaping hole in
Lake Berryessa looks scary but there's
nothing extraordinary or mystery
is about it once you've had a closer
look but if you're in search of
something more enigmatic how about
traveling down one of the largest
underwater holes in the world you'll
find it in the Caribbean or Caribbean
Sea near the coast of Belize it's
impossible to miss it
the thing is a gigantic bottomless abyss
surrounded by coral reefs are you ready
our second stop is the Great Blue Hole
for a long time people believed it was
created by aliens or an ancient
civilization but how could anyone dig a
40-story deep pit that could swallow the
Eiffel Tower another incredible thing
about this phenomenon is that the large
dark blue hole is perfectly round that's
why despite solid proof some people
still believe it has an artificial
origin and when served as storage for
something mysterious in 1971 famed
researcher and traveller Jacques
Cousteau went down the sinkhole he
discovered evidence that the strange
watery pit had been created by Nature
millions of years ago the stalactite
structure helped the researcher learn
about a powerful earthquake that
occurred about 200 million years ago and
caused a shift in the tectonic plates
later when the ice began to melt at the
end of the Ice Age the ground collapsed
even more and formed a tunnel but the
pit isn't just a deep terrifying hole
inside it has many underwater caves
where you could easily get lost and get
this they believe some of these caves
even connect the Great Blue Hole with
the mainland of Belize
it's almost like someone created an
emergency exit from the continent so
let's take a dive shall we at the start
of your descent you made an array of
underwater creatures different species
of turtles sharks octopuses and more
than 60 types of coral but the deeper
you go the less crowded it gets on the
pit smooth walls you find entrances to
dark mazes flooded caves attract you
with hanging stalactites and towering
stalagmites
don't go too far in though you can
easily get lost just like those who
disappeared while exploring the Egyptian
pyramids better move further to the
bottom of the sinkhole about five of
those 40 stories down and you'll need to
ditch the diving gear and switch to a
submarine not only because of the
pressure but what awaits you at the
bottom you've almost made it to the end
when you realize you can't see your
surroundings anymore it's because you're
now swimming through a thick layer of
hydrogen sulfide a colorless toxic gas
that smells like rotten eggs this stuff
makes the bottom of the pit totally
uninhabitable and it absorbs sunlight
completely soon you find yourself in
complete darkness but you can do even
better your next stop takes you to the
western Pacific with a depth of over
36,000 feet it could easily fit the
mighty Everest
welcome to the Mariana Trench the
deepest point on earth this place will
shock anyone not only with its enormous
depth but also its inhabitants extremely
bizarre creatures have been discovered
in the Mariana Trench tiny crawfish fish
you can see right through the terrifying
goblin shark with its alien-like
retractable jaw and razor-sharp teeth
and there's the whoa what's that you see
some eerie light moving towards you in
the darkness ah you know this
nightmarish creature
it's the angler fish with its huge mouth
that can swallow prey twice its size
anyone could instantly recognize that
weird fishing pole like dorsal spine
protruding above its head hey come here
yeah a little closer I won't bite
more than once all this darkness and
strange horrifying inhabitants and still
the Mariana Trench isn't the most
mysterious place in the ocean the most
enigmatic place is the ocean itself
humanity has only explored five to ten
percent of it so if we're searching for
other civilizations
maybe we shouldn't look up at the stars
maybe they've been underwater all along
Wow
this video sure was deep now wasn't it
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
cool videos I think you'll enjoy just
click to the left or right and remember
stay on the bright side of life